# CAHOOT-Analysis
In spring 2025 I was able to join the the Data Science for Social Justice class at the University of Oregon, this class works with organziations which may not have the funding to hire and perform data analytics on their services or capabilities. Because of this the University of Oregon has offered to allow students to perform data analysis on CAHOOTs calls and find any meaninful insights. 

## CAHOOTS
CAHOOTS (Crisis Assistance Helping Out On The Streets) is a non-profit organization that aims to help people in need during mental health emergencys, refferal for services, advocacy and transportation. They are one of first programs to be a alternative for police response and have worked in Eugene, Oregon for over 20 years. They have also helped other programs who are attempting to provide similiar services in different cities such as Denver. In April 2025, CAHOOTS became inoperational due to lost funding from the city of Eugene, both the city and CAHOOTS are working together to find a way for the organization to be active again.

## Purpose of Analaysis
When we started the class CAHOOTS had their own set of research questions that they wanted answered, and each student was given the oppurtunity to answer these quesitons. I chose two of them, one was a analysis of CAHOOT medical emergencies calls response and the second was the impact of Mobile Crisis Services Lane County (MCSLC). MSCLC is new mental health emergency service that is funded by Lane County, which is where the city of Eugene is located. Unlike CAHOOTS they do not have medical emergency service capabilities and primarily focus on mental health crisis. When they became operational in August 2024, CAHOOTS had concerns some calls were being diverted to them and impacting their services. Second was that since CAHOOTS can provide some medical emergency services how much does this make, was their any disruptions and whats the expected amount. With CAHOOTS no longer being operational, what is that amount medical emergency calls that are not being answered by their closure. 
